# User Guide

RiverNET

Guide Description: This user guide will provide step by step instructions for
installing, running and using the RiverNET web application.

## Introduction

Why should you use RiverNET? RiverNET is a water quality and quantity monitoring program that uses data from the community in order to check and maintain the ecological health of the Yellowstone river. RiverNET is unique to the Yellowstone River, using the help of the community to keep the river as healthy as possible so it can continue to be a resource used by generations to come.

### Installation

Currently, the RiverNET application is useable off of the RiverNET web service.
No installation is necessary at this time.

### Running RiverNET software

To run software, start by selecting the quality button on the index page. Once
page loads, the software is ready to be used.

### Using RiverNET software

The RiverNET web application includes buttons to submit quality data, edit
recently submitted data and a link to the RiveNET Git repository where the
latest stable and developmental product is located.

*Add & Submit Data:*

To add data, add the collector’s name, enterer’s name and analyst’s name to the
perspective spots. Then select the correct jar number from the dropdown menu,
then pick what data field you want to enter. Once entered, submit the data (this
can be edited later.). Not every space needs to be filled out when data is
submitted. Once the data is submitted, you can leave the page (no notification
is currently given that data has been successfully submitted).

*Editing Data:*

To edit jar number data, begin by pushing the “Edit Data” button from the
homepage, or from the quality page. Use the dropdown menu to select the jar you
want to edit, then enter the correct date associated with that jar and push the
view jar data button. Here you can go through and see recently summited jar
data, edit, and change the field(s) needed. Once editing is finished, click the
submit edit button to save your changes to the database. If all of your jar data
is correct, you can push the upload all data button to submit all your jars to
the final database. Jars cannot be changed when this button is pushed so make
sure they’re all correct!

### Report a bug

Currently, no bug reporting system exists. The best way to report a bug is
through the git repository. Issues can be created and dealt with by the current
developers.
